EVENT SCHEDULE FOR 2011
5:30 -- bring starting supplies (waivers, manifests, ribbons, donation bins, tables, pens, tarp, umbrella) to Dupont Circle
6:30 -- chasers meet up at Dupont Circle, get orange ribbon, give waiver
7:00 -- we officially open registration
7:15 -- all checkpoint volunteers at their checkpoints
7:15-7:45 -- remaining stamps and water will be distributed via cars, waivers picked up
8:00 -- game begins/runners released
midnight -- checkpoints start shutting down



EVENT SUMMARIES FOR 2011 (SEVERAL EMAILS BELOW)

— BEGIN EMAIL —

From Thomas Lotze
thomas.lotze@gmail.com
5/16/11

Heh.  :)  perils of being on an airplane for several hours -- a lot of what I wanted to say has already been said.  Ah, well.  Here we go.

1) This was awesome.  It was a great night, a great accomplishment, and a really great time for so many people.  We put together an event that helped make the world more unusual, more interesting, and more fun.  You all did great, and I thank you tremendously for your help.

2) Our costs.  It's true -- in past years, we've come pretty darned close to even for costs vs. (non-checkpoint) expenses.  This year, if not for the park police, we'd be there again this year.  If not for the rain keeping many people away, I think we could have been there despite the park police.  I don't think our expenses were poorly chosen -- the ribbon and waivers will save us costs in the future, as will the rubber stamps, inkpads, and water jugs.  We put a good bit of investment in, but it'll pay off in the future.  Distributing printing may help -- but it's a logistical nightmare I wouldn't want to handle, and personally would rather say, "Hey -- can all of us chip in $10 for printing" than "Can we each print 250 copies of the manifest and get them all together"  The things we actually ended up with too much of were manifests and buttons...and while I think that we could cut back on the number of buttons we get for finishers (only getting enough for the first 200 finishers, for example), I think that the manifests would have been the right number, if it hadn't rained.  I also think that reusing ribbons is more trouble than it's worth (it's a fair bit of trouble and not worth much).

3) Collecting supplies.  Of course, in order for the stamps, inkpads, and water jugs to save us money in the future, we need to collect them for future use.  That location right now is Nacim's -- everyone who still has their checkpoint supplies, please figure out how to get them to Nacim.

4) Cost to players.  I strongly believe that there is a strong psychological difference between even a $1 fee and "free", and that we'd drastically cut down our numbers (even this year, had every runner paid $1, we would still be about $800 short).  I'm also not sure what the legal implications are of charging money (it certainly complicates the permitting, though, I believe).  But much more than either of those, I strongly feel that we need to keep this game free for anyone to participate, or stop running it.  This is something we do because we want something like it to exist in our city; it is, quite literally, a gift that we give.  Yes, we take donations, because ribbons cost money, and we are happy to help people share that financial burden.  But I absolutely think that the minute we start requiring money from people to participate, it becomes a very different game, one that is no longer open to everyone.  I feel very strongly that it should be open to everyone.

5) Unordered checkpoints were fantastic, a bit hit, and really useful.  I definitely agree that this should be done again.

6) The Uberchaser was fantastic, a big hit, and a lot of fun flavor-wise.  I think that next year, I might consider having the uberchaser /only/ able to catch chasers (not runners), and not immune to safe zones.  I know that the Uberchaser was a delicious source of fear for runners...but I think there were negatives to that as well, especially with checkpoints no longer being places a runner would feel entirely safe.  I would hesitate to have more than one Uberchaser -- it's a really powerful ability, something that really changes the game, and should be used sparingly (mainly to drive chasers away from an area, rather than to actually catch chasers).  Having two could be done, but I think they would have to be very restrained (personality-wise).  I think part of what made this such a success was Bruce and Darby on twitter beforehand, and the fact that the Uberchaser was played by Darby this year (both being very cognizant of game balance and also having good interactions with the players)

7) Good Player Fairies. I think these worked pretty well to save people and give them good stories along the course.  I also think that we could have done much better in figuring out how to easily let GPFs know where runners were calling for us.  (This I think is my fault -- I didn't really think about putting this in twitter instructions, or any other mechanism for letting runners try to directly summon gpfs; I do think that it can be better).  That includes improvements on public feedback/announcement when GPFs are responding to a request.  But there weren't many calls over the night, so it may be a moot pont (I just like communication systems)  Also, I don't think that we should have any additional rules on Good Player Fairy travel rates, though -- just provide a bunch of ideas and guidelines, but leave it to the individual staff to make sure to make it interesting and not too easy (rather than binding them with very specific movement rates)  Also, note on the SF jellyfish: while that was the idea, in practice it was just like normal, anyone traveling with the GPF.  I think the physical limit is a neat idea, but difficult to implement; if the GPF is attracting too many players, they can simply stop, or head in a less useful direction.  Any GPF system should be very simple, so it can be easily conveyed to players.

8) Staff chasers, chaser density, and survival rates. I think 10% is a pretty good number.  I would actually aim for 15-20%, and be happy with 10-25% of players surviving to the end.  I'm not quite sure what the magic ratios of starting chasers and staff catch limits to players should be; I think it's going to be a complicated simultaneous function of total number of players, chaser instruction, chaser reliability, checkpoint distribution...I think our "1 chaser per 70 people, catch limit 3" was actually a little high, and if not for the rain might have been trouble.  I quite possibly should have reduced total catch limit to 2, once we realized we had fewer players than expected (even though we also had several chaser dropouts).  I think we're starting to get to the point where we have enough trained chasers that we can more reliably count on their following chaser limits, but I don't have any good ideas on anything besides "personal trust" as a way to encourage/guarantee it.  Having an overall/central plan for initial chaser distribution is definitely a good idea -- I just didn't have time, and didn't have a Lead Chaser to take on some of that organization this year.  I think that chaser density was very good, though -- that almost everyone had early experiences getting chased, and I doubt there were many (if any) players who survived without being chased at all.

9) Running twice a year.  No way.  :)  I think that it takes a lot of effort to put together a good SurviveDC, especially for the sizes we're getting to, and we don't have the resources to do it more than once a year.  On the other hand, I /do/ think that if people want to run them, there's the opportunity to do clearly-labeled "experimental" games in the fall, which are not SurviveDC (though they may have similar mechanics), using the SurviveDC distribution lists to help promote them.

9) survivedc.com.  This does need an overhaul, to make it cleaner/simpler and easier to understand.  I think we need a section telling people what, overall, the event is like (runners and chasers); a section allowing people to sign up (either for volunteering or pre-registering).  I'd also like to set up a more robust email service, so that we can actually email everyone who signs up (to give clues, to ask for volunteers, or 

10) planning.spidere.com  Kind of sucked in terms of having slowness and login and email problems with some frequency.  I don't know why (it's a simple wiki hosted on dreamhost), but we should probably find another information organization solution next year.  Ideally another wiki, which I really like for the range of information that can be stored, the email notification, and the history tracking (all of which are more complicated in Google Docs, which would be my next suggestion).

11) Pre-registration  We should really make this more useful to people next year, either by giving them a guaranteed spot up to a later time, giving them some sort of line priority, or something else (clues are nice, but will be harder to provide and remember to provide every year).

12) Starting time and checkpoint times.  We should try to make this clearer on the website, that we will release sometime between 7:45 and 8:00, but that they should arrive at 7 to get registered.  One other point that I think not many people realize is that, by having all the checkpoints close at midnight, we did actually change the dynamic and timing for how people travel the course.  You'll notice that most of our survivors came at the end -- this is not coincidence; those who survive tend to go more slowly and take longer routes.  I was a little worried about closing down all the checkpoints at midnight this year, because I know that many people end up hitting their late checkpoint after midnight -- but I think that it worked out just right.  If the course was longer, I think I'd have been concerned.  Starting a little earlier is possible, too.  I would also love to hear from checkpointers how they felt about the 5-hour commitment (in the past, because of the order, checkpoints haven't all needed to remain open for the entire time).  I think it's worth it to have unordered checkpoints again, but I wasn't running a checkpoint for 5 hours.  ;)

13) Route.  This was a great route; people really liked it.  I think the large checkpoint were an extremely good idea, in giving people many options to get into and out of each checkpoint.  It was a little long (another thing exacerbated by the rain), but not much.  I think that next year, we should consider having 5 checkpoints (instead of 6); we can pull checkpoints a little closer together, but not much without getting safezone proximity issues.  I like Todd's idea of having Dupont be a checkpoint, but one you can't do first as one way of bringing people back through the middle.  Having a non-radial system of checkpoints would also mix it up in terms of people's plans.  I also think we should consider not starting in Dupont Circle (especially if we don't apply for an NPS permit).  I think that the clock icons, while I love them and pushed for them in the first place, were confusing to a lot of people.  I am now thinking that small picture icons of each checkpoint would be great (rather than letters, which have an order) -- ideally the icons could be small clues of what to find at each checkpoint, but I also like Darby's suggestions for planet or zodiac icons, Fred's for card suits, etc.  Remember that while we can name the locations by their location, they also need small icons to be put on the map.

14) NPS Permit.  I honestly still don't know whether this was a good idea or not.  Because if not for it, maybe we would have been shut down.  But it was a huge unexpected cost (both in money and time/frustration), and one we can't easily bear.  Especially if we get stuck with more officers.  We should probably follow up with the Park Police to have them get reports from their officers and see what they thought, afterwards, and what we might need for next year.  If we have the route ready by winter sometime, we could apply for the permit, see what expenses they come back with, and have them have forgotten about us months later if necessary.  We might also consider not having any checkpoints on NPS land, or not putting them on the permit.  I think overall I'm leaning towards, "a permit is not really necessary and is not worth it", but still uncertain.

15) Rain preparation.  We should learn some lessons about how to deal better with rain.  One answer might be to have a backup date, though it would need to work for all the checkpointers.  I think there's a certain pride in running rain or shine, but I also think we get a lot more participants if it's shine.  We got very lucky at the start: I don't think we could have given out manifests/waivers very well in pouring rain.  I like Fred's ideas on laminating paper at checkpoints to protect it.  One thing to remember is that we can check the weather in the week leading up, and engage in some defensive preparation depending on how likely rain looks.  We did have a few days advance notice that it was going to rain, which is something we can take advantage of.  Preparing shelter was also I think a really good idea -- either by taking advantage of shelters which exist or bringing them ourselves.  It is something that NPS gets concerned by, but I think we can absolutely do it in a way that doesn't cause problems (as we had some examples of this year).  I think Nacim's idea of mass-purchasing ziploc bags for people to keep their manifests in is a really good one.

16) Starting plan.  Having three tables handing out ribbons was great, and really helped us keep the line down; next year I think we might even consider going up to 4.  I think that we could have used a few more people at the start; it was great to have the staff chasers there, but we also need a couple of people to help out at the end, when staff chasers will need to be out and waiting.  I think that again, we got kind of lucky in that we didn't get as many people and have them all come at once.  I think that our setup (3 tables in the middle, a line coming up for people with signed waivers to turn them in) worked well -- next time I would close off the sides of the radial, so that people who had just gotten their manifests had to get out of that radial, and have someone on each side making sure people didn't just walk into/through the middle of the line.  It does mean people have to go to the outside ring to get into line, though, and people's natural tendency will be to come to the middle.  I thought having staff marked with gold ribbons was great (identifying people you could ask questions of), and having people go down the line passing out manifests, answering questions, and asking for donations was pretty perfect.  We should also make sure to have 3-4 plastic bins available for storing waivers in: I knew we were going to need boxes or containers of some other kind, but without the two recycling bins that Brandon brought, we would have had serious trouble collecting up the waivers.

17) Teams vs. solo.  I agree that the team system is kind of jumbled/confusing/pointless right now.  I think there's an opportunity to come up with a really slick system to replace it.  But I also believe it's much better than doing away with it -- because people /love/ having teams; there's a social dynamic that it really drives.  Even without there being much purpose, or there not being much advantage to it, we've got teams like Team Rocket, Reddit, and Bros for the Win (plus many others) coming back every year and having a strong team identity because it's /fun/.  

18) Final checkpoint.  This was a blast -- everyone seemed really excited and happy.  :)  Check-in and prizes could maybe be improved, but I don't know how.  The method of collecting contestants and having them tell their stories for Best Story was fantastic.  I think Bruce should be in charge, because he basically rocked it.  :)  I love the idea of having a laptop and public real-time web reporting + projector for recording finishers (and potentially other info).  It would require someone to commit to planning it, setting it up, and running it, though.  I also really like using the final checkpoint as a place where late runners can come register, and where staff chasers can come to convert to Good Player Fairies.  I definitely agree that we'll want a larger space next year.

19) Publicity.  We can definitely do this better next year -- newspapers and radio stations being easy low-hanging targets.

20) Follow-up to players.  We should draft something to be sent out to everyone who played, saying: it was a great time despite the rain, thanks for coming; ~1200 people started and ~120 finished; thanks to their generous donations, we have made all but $X of our contributions back; follow SurviveDC on twitter or sign up for mailing list X to be told about future SurviveDC opportunities; photos are up on flickr; please take our survey.

21) Sponsorship.  I agree that I like remaining unbranded, but I don't feel so strongly that I think we couldn't do it, for the right sponsor and the right price.

22) 501c3.  I think that incorporating SurviveDC as a charitable nonprofit would be a good idea; I think we can make a good case.  Being a 501c3 would help us with any interactions for space (places are generally much nicer to nonprofits), donations (people who donate could deduct it), and legal issues (the courts tend to look more favorably on charitable organizations).  

23) Liability Insurance.  This is something we've thought about, but never actually acquired.  It seemed cost-prohibitive (several hundred dollars) -- but it certainly seems like it would be a better use of our money than park police.

24) Organization.  I think this absolutely needs to be run by someone local, in particular someone who can know all the sites pretty well and can have a pretty high understanding not just of what everyone is working on, but also an ability to see locations, travel routes, and manage supplies.  This is not going to be me next year.  I do think that there should be one person in charge, who's willing to try to organize and manage everything.  This isn't going to be me next year.  I'm willing to offer my help, my experience, and my brain, but it can't be me who does it again.  If you've read this far, you probably care enough about the details that it could be you.  (If you think it could be you, be aware that it takes a lot more time and work than you think it will, but it's also extremely rewarding; if you think you might like it to be you, let's talk)  I also think that we should start planning earlier, regardless of whether we decide to apply for a permit or not -- that having a route ready earlier makes us better able to plan checkpoints, fallback positions, safe zones, etc.

Again -- nice work, everyone.  Helluva night.  :)


— BEGIN EMAIL —

From Bruce Witzenburg
captainpatent@gmail.com
5/16/11


My notes:

1) Simply put - agreed, it was awesome.

2) The Route - The any-order route is a godsend to the game. Because chasers spread like an epidemic throughout the night, our previous numbers of 600-1200 people made it nearly impossible to survive with a given route due to the number of potential sneak attack locations people had to traverse through. Because the route is so much more spread out now, it's now actually about the right balance of threat level.

Compare to last year where the majority of the survivors were due only to navigation by good player fairies.

3) The Uberchaser(s) - while I agree in the brilliance of the concept and I feel like Thomas' change of only being able to catch and remove chasers from the game, I actually think we should consider replacing some of the good player fairies with uberchasers.

Think of it like this: If there are several locations being camped (which may very well happen when we start to get crowds that peek 2000) there are only two ways to deal with this:

1) release a good player fairy and have the runners be walked to safety.
2) release an uberchaser to help open up pockets for runners to navigate through.

Option 1 has no fear involved at all... it's just a dead-zone for play. While I think it's necessary, I think adding more fear to the game is a very good idea. Option 2 makes nobody safe. Runners are scared because they still have to dodge stealthy chasers, but chasers have to watch out because they can easily be nabbed and knocked out of the game entirely.

Because staff chasing isn't needed the whole night, it would be best if a part of the starting chasers became good player fairies and the other part became uberchasers. It would be very important that the staff chasers and uberchasers know exactly what their task is though and that uberchasers are only in scare mode until later stages of the game if and when the number of chasers becomes insurmountable.

To make a nerdy analogy, the uberchasers could be the carbon to the runaway nuclear reaction that is the chaser virus.

3.5) Staff Limits - I ran into at least two staff chasers who didn't get any emails and had no idea whatsoever as to their limits to catching. This cannot happen. All staff chasers need to know at the start to scare for a bit at first and catch slowly. This is even more important if we have additional uberchasers. Make absolutely sure in the future that contact of all of the initial chasers is good and the above problems should be completely avoided.

4) Afterparty & Award ceremony - Why are we still not announcing this?! I don't know how many people I heard quit to "go hit a bar and drown their sorrows." NOBODY I encountered knew that there was an actual afterparty going on at Dupont Italian Kitchen and surrounding locations. We need to announce at the beginning and on the manifest that if you need a place to relax, the locations at the finish line are open to us and there will be plenty of people from the event around to talk to. We also need to have a designated cut-off time when the awards will be announced. People can finish later, but finishes after the cutoff time should be ineligible for trophies - and that should also be made clear.

We could easily go down to a minimal-staff at checkpoints around 11:30 or midnight and announce at 12:30 or something like that. We just need a specific time because it's a shame to see trophy after trophy pile up because they can't be awarded that night. (one last year and four this year btw)

On top of that, it's just being good to the people that offered extra help to us. We had three places bending over backwards for us and I had to tell Level One to shut down normally because there wouldn't be enough people to overflow there.

5) Cost to players - agreed, keep it free. I recommend imposing a "suggested donation" of either $2 or $3, but that's it.

6) Publicity - A lot of people still don't even know entirely what SurviveDC is. It's becoming more clear as people participate and describe it, but we really need a video that describes the event itself with no gimmicks. I also agree that posting this to local news sources and radio would be great for us.

7) Survival Rate - I agree it was on the low end of ideal, but it was pretty damn good. It made it tough, rewarding and scary. Again - I think as the density gets higher, we'll need more uberchasers who know the ropes.

8) Running twice a year - that's a big hells no! The rarity is what makes it intense. You only get one chance to survive each year.

9) Buttons - Next year, make them year-agnostic so we don't have hundreds of buttons around with no purpose.

10) Planning.Spidere.com - oh my god, please dump this as fast as possible. I've had problems every year we've used it. I thought it was me, but apparently it's equally annoying for everyone.

11) Pre Registration - We should make this the only way people are eligible for team trophies. That way we can easily track team numbers from sign-ups and do % based awards or team points. Everyone else can participate, but they wouldn't be eligible for team trophies.

12) NPS permit - While it wouldn't matter if they shut us down at DuPont because we'd just release people, it would matter if they shut down a checkpoint. While I don't necessarily think I'm all for the NPS permit, I think this is another situation where "the courts will look more fondly on us" if there's ever an issue of liability though. That way it's not perceived as some underground event with "a bunch of rowdy teens."

13) Liability insurance - Just don't. Make absolutely sure to let people know they are responsible for their own actions at the beginning, in the waiver and online. It's just a waste of money as long as we communicate that to the participants. I say that knowing full-well what's currently going on with the girl who was mowed down by participants too.

14) Rain preparation - With a crew of ~40 people helping, there's absolutely no way a backup date will work for everyone. The rain also made it kind of more fun and interesting. Gave it that "dark and stormy night" / Bulwer-Lytton feel to it. If we can still pull numbers in the 1200 range with the looming threat of rain, I'd say we're still golden.

As a side note, I would recommend larger canvas tarps in order for not only people running checkpoints to have decent shelter from the rain, but many participants too.

15) Follow Up - I've posted a recap to CapitolImprov.com here: http://capitolimprov.com/survive-dc-2011/ I'd be more than willing to include all of that information there (or feel free to login and edit with your credentials also Thomas)

16) Organization - Oh man, Thomas - I hate to lose you!! You've been nothing but stellar to the crew here in DC! I really want to run in the event next year myself, but now I'm torn between that and making sure it runs smoothly. Next year would be the first and last year I'd be able to run it myself though so I would much rather defer to someone else in the group who's willing to step up.



— BEGIN EMAIL —

From Marianna M. (nano5th)
marianna.martindale@gmail.com
5/17/11

2&3) Costs & Supplies.  I definitely agree on the limited edition buttons. Perhaps aim for 20% survival but get buttons for closer to 10%. That might help light a little bit more of a fire under those who know they won't get a trophy but would like to get a trinket. I don't know about the other checkpoints, but we had way more than enough water and cups--I'm betting because of the rain (people already found shelter and fluids elsewhere or were bogged down by rain and weren't moving fast and getting thirsty). I don't know if we could bet on that and save in the future based on the weather forecast or not...but, of course, that was a comparatively low cost. Speaking of water, I will cry if those water jugs got thrown out. Or if I don't, he will. Also, are we hanging on to the extra cups? I've probably got close to 300 of my 450...

4) Cost to players.  Ditto on the free. I don't know if we should even go the 'suggested donation' route. The iPhone app (and ideally a future Android app?) is a wonderfully sneaky way to get around this...

9) survivedc.com.  Please, yes, get rid of the Journey '09 recap! My friend looked at it and immediately declared "that site's three years out of date!" without even looking any deeper.


12) Starting time and checkpoint times.  It was a long, cold 5 hours, but there wasn't ever longer than about 10 minutes without any runners, so that kept things interesting--and we *knew* how long it'd be in advance, so we were prepared with snacks and so forth. Having a cheat sheet of nearby restrooms, metro, and food would also help for checkpointers...

13) Route.  I'd just like to point out that we needn't have a consistent theme of checkpoint icons: there's a whole wingdings world out there to choose from :-) 

15) Rain preparation.  As we choose checkpoint locations, we should keep rain preparations in mind. If my checkpoint had set up any kind of tarp or tent we almost certainly would've had to be in the alternate location instead of in the street close to the original location where we were. That said, the original location probably would've been fine for that kind of prep--and we probably could've used it in spite of NPS disapproval: I don't think they were coming anywhere near in that rain. 

22) 501c3.  Another plus of this: charitable miles for driving around delivering supplies, etc :-) Based on a brief conversation with a friend who is treasurer of another org I'm in that has gone through this process recently, it's not too painful, but it does require some overhead, such as actually establishing things like a treasurer and so forth. If we're serious about it, then having these established roles could help with the organization. I can get more details on what all they did if desired. 

24) Organization.  I'm not ready for the time commitment of being a main organizer, but I'd be happy to take on a supporting role. I just can't ever meet on Sundays or Tuesdays :-)

— BEGIN EMAIL —

From: Bossi
thisisbossi@gmail.com
5/17/11

I'm going to steal Thomas' downright exhaustive list & reiterate as well as state anew some of my thoughts...

4) Cost to players.  I'm 100% against charging a dime.  I'm more willing to cough up out of my own coffers (which, by the way: how much?) than require any $$$.  As others have noted: the difference between "free" and "not free" is huge at the psychological level.  One observation for the website: the Survive page w/ the Donate button, at first read, gives the impression that no more donation submissions are being accepted... which certainly isn't the intent!

5) Unordered checkpoints.  As I said before: I love it.  Granted, I wouldn't entirely rule out ordered checkpoints... looking at 2010, which included the massacre around checkpoints 2-3: I think wider safe zones, Uberchasers, the capability to send out staff as GPFs, etc. could have all alleviated that somewhat if we're quick to see if happening.  Ordered checkpoints have also lent themselves to some entertaining checkpoint themes: the bureaucracy in 2009 and the DMV in 2010 played right into that.  Granted, the long lines of 2009 were brutal... but we learned our lesson in 2010 by having an army of volunteers at that first checkpoint.

6) The Uberchaser I'd personally like to see the uberchaser basically just like any other chaser -- safe zones are safe; Metro is safe.  I'm mixed on the idea of catching runners, as well... not against it, but the priority is definitely scaring chasers.  I'd be a bit concerned that players might try and use the uberchaser as a GPF if they knew that they were immune, but whether that's necessarily a bad thing or not (especially if the uberchaser isn't destined for any checkpoints) is up for debate.

7) Good Player Fairies. The less complexity for the GPF and for players: the better.  If we're going to put a cap on how many runners can be w/ a GPF, it'd definitely have to be something readily visible like the jellyfish umbrella... but giving the testimony that it didn't really work out that way in SF: perhaps it's not quite ideal.  ...Though I still kind of like the jellyfish umbrella or walking schoolbuses in concept.

8) Staff chasers, chaser density, and survival rates. I'm a fan of the ~15-20% range.  While it's nice to take the marathon "only the best win" approach, I personally feel we'll secure more return attendees if they really feel like they've got a good chance.  Of course, how to plan for achieving any desired surviver rate is an open question.

9) Running twice a year.  As I previously said... I'm not a fan.  At best I'd say smaller-scale games perhaps in some of the suburbs, which would really help distinguish them as separate from Survive DC.  Last year a group ran something up in the Takoma / Silver Spring area.  I could totally see one fitting into Arlington/Alexandria, too.  The perk of either is that they somewhat inherently cut their crowds by drawing from VA or MD-centric populations; whereas something in DC is a bit more psychologically poised to attract region-wide.

11) Pre-registration  What was our ratio of pre-registered & those registered on-site?  If it's leaning toward the former, any line-jumping privileges could be rather moot.  We also have to be aware of the logistics of having different check-in types (such as an express check-in for pre-registrants) given how difficult it is to announce information & guide queues.

12) Starting time and checkpoint times.  Yeah, the starting time definitely got misunderstood quite a bit... even I had thought it was a 7pm start time, but I admittedly didn't look too intensively at times since I knew I'd be there earlier.  But I also know that many others are just as lazy at skimming for times as I am.

14) NPS Permit.  Given our size, I'm quite inclined to stick with getting a permit... I know; it's a brutal hassle and feels obscenely bureaucratic for what's intended to be (or seem) a spur-of-the-moment game.  But the facts are that we are a pretty meticulously planned event, draw ever-increasing crowds, have participants that are prone to doing dumb things in haste, and really need to think of what happens if they ask us to shut down.  If we opt to publicize our event: there's a decent chance they may catch wind of it.  Granted, from past Capitol Improv events: park police have seemed pretty clueless about what's going on... but on the other hand, Metro Police have always been quite well-versed when No Pants is coming up.

I wholeheartedly agree we need to follow up with the police.  If we can talk them down to 1 cop: that'd be amazing... I feel that is a feasible cost.  Even 2 cops would at least be a 33% savings.  I'd really love to try and work some friendly contacts with the NPS and Park Police to try and keep us on their good side; and if they have any concerns to ensure that we're proactive at addressing them.  I can only assume that it'd be good to come off as a group serious about running a clean event rather than a bunch of kids trying to create a hassle.

15) Rain preparation.  I'd much prefer we go with a waterproofing plan rather than a rain date.  People plan their calendars around a specific date, and changing that will be guaranteed to cut out a decent chunk of people... either because they are busy on the new day or they didn't get (or forgot) the change in date.  People showing up on the original date (especially if it's still nice at that point) may get annoyed if there's no one there to run the game.  While we might be able to gain new people on a rain date who couldn't make the original date: by and large most folk will have stopped following the group once they determined that they couldn't make the original date.  From past events with Capitol Improv: any change in date or time is a very bad thing.  Consistency is golden.

16) Starting plan.  Isn't there a FedEx right on Dupont Circle?  I forget from the pricing discussion earlier... but what if we printed a more limited amount of materials; then if we started seeing our supplies run low: we run to FedEx and get their copiers cranking.  We could connect w/ the FedEx's owner/manager to give him a heads up that we might be coming in with a huge urgent printing demand, just so the employees can be ready for us to show up w/ a desire to use all their unoccupied copiers.  That way you can just say "I'm with Survive DC" and they'll know what we need; rather than listening to the whole "Hi welcome to FedEx how can I help you blah blah blah" ... no time for that customer courtesy meanderings.  If we can reassign 2-3 people: one to get the copiers rolling and 1-2 to run back copies as they're coming out... I'd think it'd be workable.  Especially if we notice our supplies running low in advance rather than at the last moment.

17) Teams vs. solo.  Ditto what Thomas said.  Yes, teams currently serve no technical purpose... but they're awesome.  If we can put them to better use: great; but if not then we should at least keep them as-is.  One other thought is that there's an amusing social dynamic in that as you're walking around the city: you feel instant comradery with anyone else wearing an arm band.  Back in my runner days, I'd quickly lose my team, rejoin with strangers into a new group, lose them, regroup with more strangers, and so on.  I'm not sure if we can build on that at all; just throwing it out there.

18) Final checkpoint.  +1 to a laptop/projector if someone's willing to take the initiative on that.  One caveat is a need for extra space & white wall to be able to get the projector... well... projecting.  The foremost demand, especially with that in mind, is in finding a sizable venue with food, drinks, space, transit-friendly location, and which is willing to work with us.  That is: bars and restaurants may not need the extra business; and assembly halls may bump us out if a group comes along who's willing to pay.  I think that's what happened at Montserrat House?

19) Publicity.  Newspapers & radio are great if we can get them for free... another option is to generate some flyers which we can post on campuses & in hostels.  I live right near a slew of hostels- I could definitely stop by those.  One more thing I kind of wanted to hit this year: do we have any good contacts with soldiers in the area?  Thinking back to the Marines' legend for a couple years, I'd love if we could reach out to some of the local military personnel to try and get some interest.  I know I pulled in a couple Army & Navy guys this year, but I was dealing with mostly white collar folk... not the actual soldiers who'd certainly be up to a test of physical fitness.

20) Follow-up to players.  Agreed!

21) Sponsorship.  I'm not a fan of pulling in corporate sponsorship unless they're local companies.  If we're going to take that route, I feel we that keeping it local would let us keep our image... actually it might even strengthen it.  But we also have to be aware of what demands they might have- it was mentioned that sponsors might be more concerned about how the event is organised/played.  We would need to make sure we're not dependent on it: that is, if a sponsor doesn't like it; we can comfortably pass on their contributions.  For what it's worth, we did get a bit of sponsorship last year... I think the Washington Improv Theater (WIT) took care of our printing in exchange for helping run a checkpoint last year.  In my opinion, that was a pretty perfect partnership... but it also helps that several folk getting these emails are personally affiliated with WIT :)

22) 501c3.  Definitely worth considering for all the reasons Thomas said (space & donations).  However, I'm curious to see how the ankle issue plays out... not having a tangible entity could be in our benefit somewhat; whereas being a non-profit could now give a definitive target for legal action.  I'm really not sure... not being a lawyer doesn't help.  Anyone have some good lawyer friends out there?

23) Liability Insurance.  Tough to say... it's more expensive than I think we can afford; especially if we have police at the same time.  However, we should also be mindful of what happens if we find that we should've gotten it...  Again, if anyone out there has any lawyer friends...

24) Organization.  Agreed w/ keeping it local, if only to help the lead organiser keep their sanity a bit more.  However, I'll stop short of throwing my hat into the ring... I know quite well there are many better candidates out there!