Chaser Email

From Thomas Lotze
thomas.lotze@gmail.com
5/10/11


You are the frightening thing in the night.  Your job is to make the runners paranoid of everyone they see, afraid of every corner, and scared of their own shadow.  To make their heart pound, their stomach weaken, their bones tremble.  You are the embodiment of the predator, a power against which the runners are helpless.  From you, they can only run, run, run and hope desperately to escape.

Are you psyched?  Good.

That's the image we want you to give to the runners.  But here's the thing: while you want to terrify runners, you don't want to actually catch them.

Say what?

That's right.  You don't want to catch them.  You want almost everyone you chase to get away.  Because here's the thing: there are going to be 15-20 starting chasers in this game.  Once you each catch just one or two people, they're going to do the rest of the job for you.  And they're going to do it well.  They're actually going to be trying to catch as many people as possible.  And that whole thing about how terrifying runners are?  It's true.  There's not much hope for a runner who encounters a chaser.  So they're going to spread.  They're going to multiply.  There are going to be hundreds of them, and they're going to ruthlessly hunt down all the runners and catch them.  All because you just caught one or two people each.

If you each catch three people?  Terrifying.  Four?  Disaster.  More?  There is no hope for humanity.  And it matters how early you catch them, too: the sooner you catch someone, the more time they have to catch more people; and the more people they catch early, the more and more people they catch.  Yeah -- exponential growth is a terrifying thing.

The Plan:

In the first ten minutes, you should try to find and chase as many runners as possible.  Make them know that there are chasers out there, everywhere.  But try very hard not to catch.  Try to catch at most one.  But in the first 30 minutes, you should try to catch at least one runner.  Your catch limit for the night is three.  That means you may not catch more than three runners during the night.  You are welcome (and encouraged) to keep chasing them.  But if you do end up catching one, catch and release: tell them, "That was just for sport.  I'm actually a staff chaser, and I'm already over my catch limit for the night."

Checklist

Now, here's your pre-Saturday checklist.  Please respond to me with the ones you've already done, and then keep me posted as you complete the rest:
1) Have you signed up for twitter, and added your id to the list at http://planning.spidere.com/wiki/Survivedc2011/contact_sheet ? Are you following secretjourney and survivedc? (You may also want to follow the checkpoints, other chasers, and/or good player fairies/uberchaser.)

2) If you do not have access to twitter on your phone, make sure to tell twitter to act via text messages. You can do this by logging into your twitter account, then adding your phone at http://twitter.com/devices You can then twitter via text by texting to 40404. You will ALSO need to go to http://twitter.com/secretjourney and turn device updates "on" for secretjourney (the icon just to the right of the "Following" button). You may want to wait until Saturday to do this.

3) Are you prepared to tweet when you catch a runner?

4) How/when will you get your orange ribbon from Thomas?

5) Do you know your catch limit?

6) Have you printed a waiver for yourself? Will you make sure to have it signed and ready when you get your ribbon?

7) Have you printed a manifest for yourself? (It will be very handy to prepare with and have with you during the event)

8) Are you prepared for the fact that it might rain? (It looks like maybe scattered showers, but it's hard to tell this far out)


Last Thing

The checklist, and some more instructions, are on the wiki at http://planning.spidere.com/wiki/Survivedc2011/chaser_instructions  There's some good info on chasing strategy, why we're using twitter/what it's good for, and dealing with authorities, too.

Oh, and -- remember to have fun!  It's going to be a great night, and you're going to be a force to be feared.  Enjoy it.